hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you come from hope you
all are doing well
i always forget it the hair is what i
can't do i can't do the whip you know i
try but it's splattering everywhere
what's going on everybody welcome back
hope you all had a wonderful wonderful
thursday
and i'm glad you're here with us now
let's go
look at everybody let's go
all right tonight's a good night
we got
two really cool apps that we're going to
build out we're going to get a little
review in first we always like to get
our space repetition in uh we're going
to talk about maybe our break next week
what what is that huh what what's going
on we're gonna talk about that then
we're gonna use our api knowledge to
build out two really cool apps one we're
gonna build a tool that folks that play
dungeons and dragons can use uh to help
look up stuff and to help them with
their campaigns then we're going to
review a little bit of local storage
and once we have a little bit of review
of the local storage we're going to
build a tracker app we're going to build
a track wrap where we can use the open
library api to look up isbns of actual
books
keep them stored locally on our machines
and then have users be able to come back
see all the books that they've read and
be able to see that kept over time our
apps no longer disappear on refresh
we're starting to build all these little
pieces together so we can start building
real apps that real users could use that
actually have value that people can come
back to time and time again
i'm ready folks
hey thank you everybody for the hype yo
gmack thank you for the five you get to
subs i appreciate that and fox hey thank
you for the uh the raid thanks for
bringing everybody over
and israel is raj we'll get you that
pokemon card later today hey
all right happy thursday everyone glad
you're here let's get into it you know
how we like to start
you got questions i got answers the
question of the day however question of
the day
is what should our next emote be we have
all these extra emote slots that we're
not using that we should probably start
using
what do you think our next emote should
be
bub
by neville boom
a smurf ooh
just get just get dmcad by domino's and
just go for it leon winks and no send
nudes got me in trouble
[Laughter]
a barbara oakley emote oh a flexosaurus
oh i love the flexosaurus that's a good
idea
flexosaurus automagically
no blah blah hates automatically i can't
do that there
code weenie all right i see a toaster
all right all right
goblin we got some good ones look at
these these are good
these are good
head banging them bangers only well
that's a good one too
all right i'm taking notes folks i'm
taking notes
oh i'm a baddie
[Laughter]
just i'm a baddie oh that'd be so good
to use another chats
all right i'm a tina twerk
i'm making i'm making notes i'm gonna
write them down we're gonna work on it
we're gonna get these new emotes coming
in a zebra emote a zebra remote yeah be
a good one beyonce roller coaster
all right i got you these are good all
right
now any questions before we jump into i
always like to give folks just a few
seconds to get here if you're new
welcome we're running a free 30-week
software engineering bootcamp where we
take folks from having never coded
before to employable i don't know if
you've seen that celebrations channel
recently folks the number of folks that
are getting clients
some folks already getting jobs it's
wild
i can't believe i lost 50k last class
hey i'm sorry you live by the yolo you
die by the yolo it's only one way
how do i handle fetch of data with
another fetch uh you can actually nest
your fetches it gets really ugly but you
can nest them that's the easiest way to
do it
eventually you can assign stuff to
variables and then eventually we'll use
async awaits which solves a lot of these
problems so like the easiest thing you
can do is just nest your fence your
fetches
it feels bad but it works and then as we
get further along we'll we'll learn
tools that stop that from having to
happen
i haven't watched the other api classes
can i follow along with this one it's
going to be it's going to be a little
tough you can definitely try um you'll
definitely pick up some things because
we always do review and then you can
maybe apply those things to your other
classes the other ones as you catch up
yeah yeah we'll get through async await
we'll get through promises and all that
fun stuff yeah then it makes this so we
want to we want to be able to use apis
play with apis be able to take stuff put
it in the dom and we're almost there we
almost have everything we need to be
able to build real apps with these apis
there's like two more things we're going
to learn today that enable us to like
append stuff a little bit more readily
into the dom and then the other thing we
have to learn is like how to keep it in
the dom so that if our users refresh the
page or go away and come back the stuff
is still there once we have that we can
go wild and so i'm excited
yeah definitely mine wolf if you haven't
watched their streams as well definitely
doing a lot of api review so if you feel
a little behind with the apis definitely
check out their vods they go go really
in depth i'm really excited to have them
on the stream team because i know it's
helping a lot of folks
cool
people write all the api data by hand
somebody's got to do it right
a lot of times it's a lot of work to
like build out all the data that's in an
api uh you might not be doing it by hand
you might have like a like a form or you
might build a tool that helps build out
all the data but it has to be entered in
somehow it's not magic right and so yeah
it is a lot of work to build out some of
these apis like when i was when we were
looking at that pokemon api i don't even
want to know how long it took to just
like get all the data in one place and
like i'm sure there are like places like
bulbapedia and stuff that kept track of
it for a long time but if you just had
to start today and collect all of it
too long
a lot of people these days will do um
they'll split out tasks like that on
mechanical turk and uh you can have
people from like all over just like do
one and you have like 10 000 people
doing it and then you can build them out
quicker
alrighty folks
let's jump into it let's get into it we
got some stuff we got to talk about
today and then we're going to get more
into
our apis
all right we are going to do a little
bit of review we're going to build two
new api projects we're going to play
with local storage and we're going to
talk about the homework if you haven't
already please go ahead and check in
zema said how do i mark attendance you
can click that little
link to twitter there because when folks
type in the exclamation point check-in
that brings up the tweet just go to that
tweet like it retweet it uh it helps the
community grow it also makes sure that i
know that you are here so when we get
towards the end of program we have a lot
of stuff that's just going to be for
folks that have been here that have been
working through the program and so we
need to make sure that you've been here
so the check-in is your attendance and
also helps folks find us
cool
now remember just typing in check-in
doesn't do anything you have to go to
the tweet
and do it there
can i delete something i push to github
yeah you can delete the repo if you
would like but know that there are lots
of bots and stuff that once you push
some things it's there forever
cool
all right remember
no networking
no networking until may
we have all of all of april to to focus
in on some of the things we're going to
focus in on uh no networking until may
client deadline is now the
fifth
oh i gotta tell my demo pro
there we go
it's now the fifth i forgot to update it
uh because we have a major holiday on
the third yeah
cool
just got a client today congrats angel
cakes that's amazing
congratulations
uh remember if you for some reason are
not able to get a paid client meaning
that you're not like allowed to get a
paid client some folks have visa
circumstances or things like that
remember they're all two alternatives
you can volunteer for a grassroots
organization you go through the same
process you still get a contract you
still get a proposal done
you just have an amazing reference at
the end instead of money
you can also contribute to free software
uh there's this first timers only which
is a great place to start find
communities that want to be helped
but dude said is this a boot camp or
just random lessons it's a boot camp no
exclamation point well it's an agency
with a training program
and so go ahead and do x-men point
hundred dabs you can learn anything you
want to know about the program
sorry passion
alrighty
if you haven't joined the code wars clan
you're missing out when we come back
the perks
the perks that some folks are going to
get from being in the clan whoo
we come back we got some uh we got some
good stuff here
all right
remember if you're joining the clan it's
the whole
portion it's this whole thing it's not
just 100 devs
submitting work we had a lot of work
that was due today and so i want you to
go ahead and make sure you submit your
work you don't have to do it right now
but you can if you haven't done it
before class make sure you get it done
after class uh there's a form uh the
form is asking for your
your kind of some of the bigger projects
that we've worked on the past couple of
weeks and the three api pieces that
you're supposed to do by today
so go ahead and submit if you haven't
already and uh
if not
if you haven't finished if you if you
weren't able to get it done well
now you have some more time
you have some more time uh because no
class next week
so a lot of folks have been asking for a
break a lot of folks have just been
saying like you know what i'm just there
i'm hanging on just a little bit right
i'm hanging on just a little bit and i
just need a little bit more time to
either get caught up or to take a
breather and so next week we will not
have any class so there will be no like
me covering new topics uh we won't have
anything that you would miss okay so
next week no class uh we start sunday so
sunday is a holiday so we won't have
office hours on sunday we won't have
class on tuesday and we won't have class
on thursday
cool now
it's up to you
how you want to use this break
some folks will use this break as an
actual break
your brain might be might be churning a
little too much these past couple weeks
right
and so some folks might actually take a
full break
be weary of that this is where we lose
people
when we do breaks is where we lose a
large portion of folks that just never
come back okay
so if you are doing a break know that we
come back in a week not this sunday the
next sunday and we keep pushing forward
all right
now the interesting thing here is that
we're taking the break
tuesday thursday
so you can take a full break if you need
it
a lot of folks however will take this
break to get caught up right a lot of
folks will take this next tuesday and
thursday that class time to get caught
up and to fill in the gaps they need to
fill up
so i always like to say that a break
may not really be a break it's up to you
and just because we're on a break
doesn't mean there aren't some
expectations of each other right just
because we're on a break doesn't mean
that we we just run out and do whatever
the heck we want right
and so
on the break there will be a couple
things that i'm going to be asking of
you uh if
you don't need if you need that if you
need that week to to mentally
unwind and and and and not think about
code that's great but i think a lot of
folks need the break to just catch up
and reinforce the things that they
learned without having the expectation
of being live for class so if that's you
we're gonna have two work together
nights
right so next tuesday
and
next thursday
we are going to have work together
nights so it won't be any class
but we're going to break up the remo
into different floors right and break up
the remote to different floors and so
one floor might be part of the ketchup
crew and trying to catch up
uh one floor might be folks that are
struggling with apis and work on apis
together we're gonna make it so that you
can find your people to work with maybe
you want to work with your study
community to get stuff done but we're
going to hold tuesday and thursday as
work together night so if you feel like
you want to come and work with some
other 100 dabs you want to get to know
some folks you want to get some
networking in come to those work
together nights tuesday thursday but
know that there is no expectation of
class
there is some work though
and there is there's three
stratifications
of work
some folks need to catch up and so i
hope you take this week this break
to catch up
if you feel like things are going
at a good clip you just want to
reinforce the things that you've learned
i want you to work through this intro js
course
it's by codecademy it really does like
hold your hand through a lot of the
material just a way to get all those
little things back in it's a full course
it's like a it's like a 30-hour course
get through as much as you can i really
do like it to reinforce
we got you did get got uh we we i really
do like folks to work through it and
maybe you don't take the week
the whole week to work through it but
make sure that it's on your your your
list to get through
yeah has anyone gotten a job yet we've
got a lot of jobs already yeah we've got
a lot 100 plus from last cohort and this
cohort's already taken off it's wild
did we already do this yes you might
have done some of it might have done
some of it but now you're doing
all of it
cool
would you say to do this course or work
on odin project definitely this course
yeah this is just more like hand-held
uh it is just something to get a little
bit more practice in a little bit more
syntax practice
right so i i think this is a definitely
good thing to go through especially if
you didn't finish it already
um don't pay for it go up until where
they make you start paying that's it
yeah
cool
and then the last thing that i need you
to work on is this professional
checklist
this professional checklist we need to
start getting all of our stuff together
to get ready for
the hunt
right
is going to be a lot of work
and we want to make sure that you have
all your stuff pulled together so that
we can go into that process with ease
different hey what's up so after this
week when we come back we're doing
object-oriented programming
and then we're moving right into the
back end and as soon as we hit the back
end we also start the hunt
and so this week while you have more
time
especially if you've already finished
the js course i need you to work on this
professional
checklist
and so
uh
let me pull it up real quick
um
all right i need you to look at this
checklist
and there's a lot of stuff that's on
here
and there's a form that i'm going to ask
you to submit when you're done
and so there are some tools to install
grammarly which is just going to help
you with grammar as you're typing
buffer which will just help you stay
engaged social media wise as you go into
the hunt so just to have them signed up
for
i want you to start thinking about your
blurb like why folks would hire you
over someone
else
right why would somebody why would
somebody hire someone else
and then i want you to make sure that
you have your portfolio
your resume
your linkedin your angel list your
github your twitter your cover letter
your cover email and you're going to
notice
all right you're going to notice
that there are examples for each thing
cool
did they make grammar do you have to pay
for grammarly now like you can't even
use the basic version anymore
i just use the free version
don't ever pay for anything i'm never
going to ask you to
um pay for anything
yeah free works yeah yeah thank you
alright cool cool yeah there's totally a
free version that's just a browser
extension that you have um in your that
you can put on like chrome and it just
works
cool
so this is a checklist i want you to get
through the uh the checklist uh and i
want this done
by tuesday april 26th
a lot of this stuff you already have or
have been thinking through so it's just
about time to kind of pull this all
together so
we're taking a break
break means no class
up to you how you want to use this time
if you honestly need a full week off
take it
but you better be back here on sunday
not this sunday next sunday
if you want to use this break
as a way to catch up
please use it i really recommend
i really recommend this js course
right
and then
if you take the rest of the week i want
you to work on your professional
checklist i think if you can get through
those three tasks we'll be in a really
good spot going into the back end so
take your time catch up work through the
course
work on your professional stuff still do
your code wars still get your networking
in and come to our work together nights
but no actual class time
cool
sunday april 24th
get bowl
uh so
on the 24th right the 24th
i want you to
come back and we're going to work
a lot on git github getting our work on
github we're going to spend a lot of
time that sunday kind of just drilling
all the things that we need to be ready
for like the next half of course so
come back on sunday april 24th we're
going to do a lot of get work a lot of
github work we're also going to spend a
lot of time with apis as well
looking at some of the bigger errors
that folks get with apis we're gonna
spend some time troubleshooting course
errors all those fun things so
this week
it's up to you how you spend your week
some folks are gonna take a full week
off
if you take a full week off i expect you
to be here on sunday the 24th because i
need you to be here to get back those
gears get going
some folks might take the week to catch
up they might not have class they might
take advantage of not having the class
time they might dial down their
networking well we don't have any
networking sorry for for april they
might dial down their code wars just for
the week right to catch up invest your
time to catch up some folks are going to
work on this course and everyone
hopefully that week or that weekend will
get through the professional checklist
cool
sunday 24th get bull lots of git github
stuff and a lot of the more tricky stuff
with apis just to get our get all that
stuff out the way and then when we come
back that week we jump right into the
the fun stuff of object oriented and
then back in because we're almost
halfway through the course folks
uh get bull will always be the normal
time we start on sunday which is 1 p.m
eastern time
cool
taking this week to go harder hey that's
up to you like i said folks can take
this week to to push to catch up
whatever you need i want you to have
this time and i don't want you to feel a
certain way about using that time the
way you want to use it we're taking this
space for folks to be able to use the
time to their own
advantage
alrighty
let's get into it folks we got a lot of
stuff to get into uh this night we have
well wherever you're coming from day
morning
so we're gonna do a little bit of light
review
and then we'll probably uh jump right
into our first assignment
alrighty
another super review soon probably when
we get all the way through to the end of
like basic javascript we'll do a longer
review again i don't know if we'll go a
full nine hours but i'm feeling like a
five hour is definitely in our future
cool
alrighty folks let's get into it
a program is what chat what's a program
beautiful a set of instructions
and therefore the act of writing those
instructions we call programming we
write those instructions in a language
the computer understands we call it
programming the language we use to write
our instructions thus far is javascript
it's a beautiful human readable language
we can communicate our ideas to each
other
and that javascript can then be broken
all the way down into something the
computer can understand
wonderful
chat what are loops
for loops
yeah
repeating a set of instructions or
repeating a set of actions multiple
times
so we can repeat an action some number
of times we've seen a lot of loops so
far we've seen four while we've seen
things with tied to arrays like four
each a lot of fun ways to loop through
our
content a lot of ways to loop through
and do multiple actions repeatedly
beautiful
with our for loop we had our
setting up of our counter
we said when the loop would end and we
would increment by this amount each time
remember you can also don't have to
increment just by plus one you can
increment by plus five if you wanted to
plus equals five you wanted to you can
de-increment you can do whatever the
heck you want in there and uh it just
enables you to do this set of
instructions that many times uh in this
one we know that it would print one two
three four but never print five
because five would be less than five and
like i said if you're if you're new here
we're going through this pretty fast
this is all review you can definitely
join our discord exclamation point
discord agree to the rules you'll see
all of our past classes all the past
stuff you would need we also have a
wonderful catch-up crew where you can
catch up and go at your own pace to the
material
all right
chat what a raise
yes
yes they are bill gates toasters
how do you think bill gate how many
toasters do you think bill gates has
thrown chat how many toasters you think
bill gate has
how many houses do you think they have
how many toasters are in those houses
you know what
i bet you bill gates doesn't know how
many toasters they have
that's a fun question all right they are
toasters
and what do we mean by toasters we mean
one
thing that can hold a bunch of other
things right
we
use it as an ordered collection of stuff
and when i say an order collection of
stuff i mean that those things that are
inside the containing thing well they
are numbered starting with zero
right so we have our index that starts
counting at zero and we go from zero
until we run out of slots where things
are being placed
we can create arrays in two ways using a
constructor or using literal notation we
see little notation here with the square
brackets we can when we declare our
array and assign it a value we can
already assign it with values in it
and then we have to remember the values
that are inside of our array we start
the indexing at zero so if we want the
zero index out of our array this one
would give us new york and if we wanted
london we would use the third index
beautiful
not only can we put stuff in we can get
stuff out using the index so here i'm
getting the values out by using the
index this is really helpful
really helpful when we get to our
our
apis
because the apis often give us back
content that has arrays in it and arrays
with with objects in it right and we
have to pull those objects out of those
arrays so we had to get comfortable with
these arrays so that when we move to
apis we know how to deal with the
content we're getting back
all right we can not only get stuff out
we can put stuff in which is really
helpful
and we can always use properties like
length to get us to tell us how many
elements are in an actual array
we can also iterate through arrays we've
seen four each which helps us iterate
through arrays you're gonna see four
each today when we get data back from an
api we're gonna use that for each to
loop through all the data we're getting
back and use each piece and eventually
we're going to use those pieces and
append them to the dom
cool
chat what are objects we're blazing
tonight what are objects chat
they're everything
everything
would that be a good emote too
and everything about i think that's
something we got for that on the list
yeah
they're a collection of variables and
functions
collection of variables and functions
exactly
and so when we
talk about those variables and functions
that are tied to an object we give them
a slightly new name we call those
variables properties and we call those
functions
methods
and when we think about objects we can
actually think of a physical object i
like to start with a stopwatch and we
can imagine all the properties that a
stopwatch might have the current time
property the color property the shape
property might also have some methods
like tell the time or start or stop
cool
if you want to pull something specific
from an object that itself is inside of
an array
are there nesting indexes well you would
have to use the index of the array to
grab the object and then once you have
the object you can use it just like a
regular old object we're actually going
to see that today mod we're going to see
that in a little bit
we learn how to build apis absolutely so
we're we're learning how to use them and
consume them so we can start building
them and you're going to realize that a
lot of the things that we do first in
back-end development or really just
building out apis
cool
right here i'm adding properties and
methods using what kind of notation
yeah dot notation lovely
all right
let's get into it
chat
what are
apis
what's an api
yeah okay i see some of you
okay
simple interface for some complex action
i love it simple interface for some
complex
action
what are some interfaces that you use
that enable a complex action to happen
what are so what are so what are what
are some what are some simple interfaces
that you have a remote nice
power button
home buttons
key fob that's a good one vcr get out of
here well those vcr tapes are going wild
right now price wise
toilet flush
lightsaber on
exactly
stove
okay nice these are all really simple
interfaces that do something complex
when we turn the knob on our stove
you've got to think about all the stuff
that has to happen this natural gas that
comes through it's ignited by an igniter
and it forms a big flame where did the
gas come from you don't know all these
complex things happen just when you turn
a knob
key fob think about all the stuff that
has to happen for your doors to lock
that key fob has to send a signal the
car has to receive the signal has to
know what to do with the signal has to
know that it's your signal has to know
to then trigger some electronics that
move and and lock the car
all that complex stuff happens because
you have a simple interface that is a
button on a key fob
i love it
the one that we use that got me into
some trouble last class is that i love
to think of an api as a menu at a
restaurant
i have my menu i point to my noodle soup
and i say noodle soup please and then
something complex happens in the kitchen
there is a combination of
of broth and
rice noodles and
vegetables and tofu that all gets put
together in a beautiful bowl i don't
know how they're dicing i don't know how
long they're cooking i don't know what's
been put in water or what and then it
all comes out in a beautiful bowl
right a beautiful bowl that i get to
enjoy so very simple interface that was
a menu that led to some really complex
action that provided a beautiful bowl of
soup
i had a coffee chat today with someone
that's building apis that's dope
already
so the apis we've been using so far have
mainly been web apis
meaning that we have an interface that
enables us to make a request to a server
that server hears the request there's
some code that's set up to gather all
the stuff it needs to respond to that
request and then it responds and so far
the data we've been getting back from
most of our apis has been json but we're
actually going to see today that apis
can really send whatever the heck they
want one of the apis that we're going to
use first really tries to send
like
html
and you have to be a very you have to
give it a very specific query parameter
to get that actual json data back and so
we've been using web apis that give us a
url as the interface that url enables us
to make a request the server hears the
request and responds with some stuff and
ideally we're getting some json data
back some objects back that we can use
beautiful
all right
we saw
for right now fetches are how we are
making our api requests eventually we'll
get to async away and promises and all
that good stuff we understand that these
really are promises if you've read ahead
and so we'll get there
i like for you to play around and enjoy
apis and then we'll slowly peel away the
onion and you'll understand how it works
under the hood
alrighty
we also saw that when we were using the
fetch we could pass in query parameters
with our urls and the query parameters
are just a way of getting a little bit
more specific when requesting data from
a server so with query parameters i can
say hey don't just give me any cocktail
give me data on margaritas or whiskey or
other things that we passed in
right and so the query parameters really
do give us a lot of flexibility on this
interface right this interface is just a
url but we can think of these query
parameters as like the what on our
remotes
you think of these query parameters as
like the what on our remotes
yeah they're like the buttons on our
remote we use margarita here and the tv
turns on we use whiskey and it switches
to hulu we we type in jin and it
switched to netflix right like we can
think of those just query parameters
like extra buttons on our interface that
enables us to get different data back
wonderful wonderful
is a question mark mandatory in all
situations
it depends
on how the server is expecting your
interface to come through
most of the time you're going to see
that you will have a base url that the
api has provided you and then they're
going to give you a bunch of key value
pairs that you can append to the url to
get specific data back right and so the
way you start those key value pairs is
with the question mark and then you do
key value pairs for each
different thing you're appending to that
url each key that you're asking for so
uh we see like s here for search uh we
saw what sum we had to put like an api
key what some we're going to see today
we can add more and more robust things
uh to our urls now there are some urls
that don't use the query parameters but
instead just have forward slashes and
then specific information you put after
the slash and so we're going to see both
types today we're going to see types
that just have the forward slash and
we're going to see some that have the
query parameters it really comes down to
reading the documentation
yep the documentation is going to tell
you how the interface like what they're
expecting
for you to do to get that data back
if you're having cores there as i see
folks kind of bringing that up use
different apis for now and then come
back on the 24th we're going to spend a
lot of time working through and
troubleshooting course errors but for
now it's just not worth it to struggle
with them just find different apis
each server can can respond in different
ways and sometimes there are protections
that are put in place to help stop like
your files on your machine from like
having access to the internet and that
can lead down to a whole different
rabbit hole so we're going to save that
for when we come back on the 24th uh but
for now just choose a different api
cool
and a lot of times folks are forgetting
like the s always copy and paste the url
directly
yeah and always just try your urls and
postman first
right
yep make sure you have your s for https
and try them in postman first that's how
i can move through a lot of apis to find
which ones i like because a lot of apis
that are out there they're no longer
supported they've been down for a year
you have no idea and so i think one of
the hardest
parts of using apis is like finding the
apis that are actually useful
um yeah
cool
all right let's keep pushing
alrighty so the first project
i want to work on tonight
is i want to be able to use this lovely
uh dnd api so if you click on the link
on the slides it'll take you to the api
right and i'll put it in chat as well
just so we have it
cool
so the link is in the slides but it's
also there in chat
this is this dnd api returns everything
that you would want about anything
in the fifth edition
so there's a lot of really cool stuff
that you can get back
um it pretty much has everything um
and so for those who don't know what
dungeons and dragons is it's a tabletop
role-playing game uh it's where you can
have really cool adventures that you
probably couldn't have in real life and
uh there's a lot of kind of things you
have to know to exist in the world or
there's all these different kinds of
monsters and spells and stuff like that
and so it's actually kind of
non-trivial to keep it all in your brain
and so a lot of people will sit down and
they'll have like books with them or
they'll have cards with them or things
that'll help them
remember everything and so what i want
to build is an app that enables us just
to like look up stuff
and
uh and then i want you to run with it
right and so
we're going to use this api and the
first thing i want to do
is just see how the api works
see what we can get back from it and
and then go from there to build maybe a
little simple app with it before we take
our first break
so
here is the base url
it's this dnd 5e api dot co flash api is
the base
and
you can see that there give you some
example uh some examples there's a full
documentation that goes through like
everything that there is and so like i
said a lot of times documentation can
get wild but there's so much here so
much here
yeah so much here
but we're just going to use their first
example that they gave us which is the
spells of acid arrow and so
i'm going to go to
my
i'm going to clear out i was testing
before class i want my postman
and on postman i always just click plus
and it just gives you a new way to make
a request
and so
if we go ahead
and paste in the base url that's good
and then they also gave us kind of some
like the next thing to look for
and it was spells slash asset
arrow so this is kind of one of those
apis where they're not using query
parameters right it's kind of just the
way the url is formatted for now we're
just following along i'll give you some
time to work on this yourself yeah so
follow along for now and then i'm going
to prompt you to to do something i just
want to show you postman how i first
kind of like look at apis i think one of
the things folks struggle with in the
beginning is like leon what would you do
if you just found an api and you want to
see if it like works or does the things
or see what it has right
and so
for me i'm going to show you my process
of how
i like actually figure stuff out
and so for me
i would go to the site it's linked in
the slides and i put it in chat already
but i'm going to grab the base and then
i'm going to type in spells asset arrow
and postman so spells
acid
spells slash acid
arrow cool
and now that it's in my
postman i can click send
and we can see all this stuff
that comes
back
right
all this stuff that comes back
i can see that i get kind of the name of
the spell
i get a description a shimmering green
arrow streaks towards the target within
range and burst into a spray of acid
right
and so i'm able to go ahead and see all
the stuff that comes with it uh we can
see
range
we can see casting
all this fun stuff
we can even see things like classes and
sub classes and so i think it's pretty
all the stuff that's coming back with
this api
and so what i want to do
is be able to now that i know this api
works i want to do something simple i
just want to be able to
get some data back to start
and what i think i want to do is i want
to be able to have
my user
enter in a spell
and i want to see the sub classes that
can use that spell
all right so i want to be able to enter
in a spell and then i want to be able to
see the sub classes that use
that
spell
so what i'm going to do is we have in
today's materials if you're new and you
need the materials you can do
exclamation point discord
join our discord
once you agree to the rules you'll see a
follow-on materials channel and that'll
have all of our starter code so today i
have starter code and you see i have
this lovely
dnd folder
and in it i have a main js and an
index.html
in the index.html
we have an input
we have a button and we have a place to
put some stuff
all right a place to put some stuff
dnd streams when we've we've talked
about it we have a lot of folks that
play d and d in 100 devs i'd be down i'd
be down to do uh to be fun to do some
fun
cool
alrighty
so we have this like nice little starter
code i'm gonna open this in the browser
just so we have it open
and what i want to have happen is i want
the user to be able to enter in a spell
and i eventually want to see the
subclasses that can use the spell you
can see the subclasses down here right
right beside my head i want them to go
in there and so what i would love for
you to do is i want you to take and put
some time on the clock here
i want you to get this api working you
got the starter template here i want you
to get it so you're getting some data
back
i want you to get it so you can get
these sub classes
right
and
if you want to really kind of go to the
next level
get these subclasses showing up in the
dom we're going to put some time on the
clock your goal is to get this api
working read the documentation use
postman
play around with the starter code that
we have here
get data coming back from the api and
start getting stuff into the dom you can
hard code it at first do what you want
to do we're going to put we're going to
put some some time on the clock
uh so
when you play d and d your character can
have a class like the things that it can
do or like what type of character it is
um
but one thing that happened is that what
if you had like two people that wanted
to be a wizard right
what if you wanted two people that
wanted to be a wizard a wizard can go
down a lot of different paths in life
right
you could have like a wizard that goes
and does good you get a wizard that does
goes and does bad and so these sub
classes in the fifth edition are kind of
like
journeys that your character can go on
and then when you're playing with other
wizards it's easier to kind of keep
track of like who does what and all the
wizards don't have all the same stuff
right they don't all do the same thing
and so the subclasses just bring a
little a little bit more spice or
seasoning to the game
and so you're yeah schools of magic
stuff like that yeah one went to one
school of magic the other wizard went to
the other school of magic and so when
you look up these spells you're going to
see like the class that can use it but
also like these subclasses are going to
come up as well so i'm going to put some
time on the clock here it's going to put
maybe
timer
let's put five minutes on the clock
i want you to get
as far into this as you can
getting that subclass coming in
and then trying to get the subclass into
the dom and then i'm going to show you
some cool stuff about how to get
multiple elements into the dom using a
loop so five minutes of the clock you
got this
dig deep
and then we're going to go over it
together
dagger we really haven't gotten the
promises yet
for now just use apis
we'll get to promises later on
[Music]
i am not feeling the newer stream beats
there we go that's what i need my life
uh what you have to do is actually at
the top of the file
fetch some data using the dnd api
and place the subclasses in the ul
that's what we're trying to do
all right jordash welcome
subclass subclass
we're using that spells api
we're getting some data back from the
spells api
and what we want is if we look
there are these subclasses that's what
we're trying to get into the dom
do
bodega it's passed through a promised
chain
was basically imagine like a function
calling a function and passing stuff
along as it does it
use the spells that they give you in the
documentation you don't have to know
anything about dnd to do this because
they already have give it to you in the
docs use the one that we just tried
together
links are always in the slides
man with milk congrats
see delay i always check my links in
postman first because sometimes i just
want to make sure that my code isn't the
thing that's causing the problem so i
use postman to test every time
used postman so much as i was making an
animal crossing thing that's awesome
oh got some folks coming in done nice
minute left and we're going to go over
it together
can you walk through postman sure i can
show you how how i used it but i just
click the plus sign and plug in my link
that's that's pretty much it
[Music]
sometimes if you're using certain
clients you have to like download
something to your computer but it'll
prompt you to do that
and you also don't have to use postman
coding the links are always in the
slides you don't need the links from me
that they're in the slides use the
slides
alrighty folks come on back come on back
alrighty
let's take a look at this together
all right folks
i'm always going to put the links in the
slides i see so many folks that couldn't
find the link all you need to do in the
slides click right here these blue ones
are links right
always click these these are always
going to be links for whenever i need
you to do an api
right so boom that's going to be the
link when we do the next one over here
boom that's going to be the link
oh
alrighty
so
what i want to do is i want to use this
api and i don't have to know anything
about this api what it does i just want
to see what comes back
right i want to see what i get back when
i use their example
right
and so
they've always been links
yeah they have been
oh
yeah but i'll always always i'll always
tell you where to get it right so i said
a couple times it's in the slides god
gotta hear it i'm telling you i'm
telling you it's gonna be in the slides
all right
now
i'm gonna take this link
right i'm gonna take this link
and i'm gonna use it with postman uh
postman there's a lot going on
but you you do have to like log in and
they're gonna ask you to like download
something to your computer so they can
make requests
uh you can there's so much stuff in here
but i just go to my workspace
that's it and then there's this plus
sign
i click the plus sign
and i can plug in the urls
and so this one was the base url
and then
i saw that the rest of the url was
spells asset arrow
and so i can go ahead
and plug in
asset
arrow
and i can test it by clicking send
and i can see nothing came back
so i saw that i that i got an error
why did i get an error
i put the wrong link right i didn't use
the full link so if we go back we can
see that it is
spells
asset arrow so i like using postman just
because i can
catch these things before
i'm in my actual code
because once i'm in my actual code
the question i always have in the back
of my mind
is is it their link that's not working
or is it my
code that's not working
and so postman just enables me to kind
of check these things really quickly
i use it pretty much all the time i
always have it open uh when i'm working
with apis and that's what i do
cool
so
now i have a link that's working
i'm gonna go back to the code that we
have here we can see that this this link
is already in here and we're using the
same
we're using the same setup that we've
been using for the api template that
we've used for all the apis that we've
seen so far
we have a button
we have a button that gets clicked
and when it gets clicked it runs this
set of instructions called get fetch
and in this get fetch
we can see that i can grab the choice
right i can grab the value that was in
my input and i'm plugging that into
my spells
and so
if this is to work
we should be able to just console.log
our data
and it should work just like the example
did in postman so i'm going to save this
i'm going to open this in my
browser
i'm going to open up my inspector
and in this console
i'm going to type in
the same thing that they gave me to try
which is acid arrow
so asset hyphen arrow i'm going to click
get spell data
and boom we got our lovely object coming
through
right
and so we can see that it's working
we're getting data back from
the dungeon dragons api here and we can
even see the stuff that we care about
down here these subclasses what kind of
data does subclasses give
what kind of data is stored in that
subclass yeah
it's an array
it's an array of objects
so where this gets a little bit more
difficult
is we're going to need to
work with this array we're going to be
able to grab the array
grab the objects out of the array
get the data that we care about out of
those objects and then append it all
to the dom
so there's a lot to be done there to
kind of start working with this data get
it showing into the dom it's going to
walk through this one more time and then
we're going to take our break and we
come back from the break we're going to
start actually doing it so we can see
that we have our input and our button
and we have like this place where we
want to put the sub classes
if we look at our javascripts
we have our event listener it's
listening for the click on that button
when it hears the click on the button it
runs the get fetch function
we can see that we're grabbing the value
out of the input in this example it is
the acid arrow that we put in there
and then we plug
that asset arrow
into our url using our query string
sorry our template literal here
and then when we make our fetch we use
that string that now includes asset
arrow we got the data back we were able
to see the data we console logged the
data and that's why we were able to see
it in the console
cool so we're going to take our break
we're at the top of the hour if you're
new here at the top of every hour we
take a break
it's clicking leon whoo that's what i
like to hear alabama boy
it's click hopefully we do this a lot
more times it it takes a little while
right it takes a little while
but we'll get there and so we're going
to take our break because at the top of
the hour if you're able please get up
move around hydrate let your eyes relax
on something that's not the screen if
you can't move from where you are maybe
do some light hand stretches if you're
able and we'll be back in five when we
come back we're gonna start digging into
this data we got back from the api we're
gonna start seeing if we can play with
that array see if we can peel into those
objects and we're going to see for the
first time really how to loop through
that array and append every single thing
that we got
to the dom
alrighty folks
[Laughter]
all righty i'm going to start the timer
see you in five
i'm gonna run some ads so you have to
take the break
soon
archer dr levi the fitness doctor i
recommend their their stretches
um
ready folks come on back come on back
alrighty let's take a look at this
together let's keep pushing
we got some data coming back
some uh
some some errors that folks are coming
in that that were folks were kind of
saying that they were having uh was
a lot of folks forgot the hyphen
right so a lot of folks when they typed
in asset arrow they forgot the hyphen as
they typed it in
and guess what without that arrow is
probably not going to work
right so if you didn't put the hyphen
yeah it's not going to it's not going to
give you the data that you want
because that's what they're expecting
we could figure out ways to clean that
up that'd be a good thing to do right
figure out ways to clean that up
i'm gonna move this stuff up here above
the um
the the image
and put it up here just so we have it
above the image because the image is
taking up so much time so much room
there we go cool
so that was the hyphen that was uh some
things we could do we could definitely
clean it up we could we could do some
splits some replacing we could do some
fun stuff but uh for now just make sure
you actually typed out the correct the
correct string
and then
the other thing that i saw some folks
running through like leon i did it but
there was no data coming through uh we
had to console log your data if you
didn't set up the console log then you
wouldn't have seen anything in the
console if it worked because there would
have been nothing there
make sure you had the uh the the console
log there or she won't see any of the
data coming through when it does work
cool
all right so
we have our console log which means that
this should be working let's put back in
our asset hyphen arrow
let's get spell data and great we have
this lovely object
okay i got console guy
[Laughter]
if
yeah just telling myself the computer
does exactly what i tell to do and
nothing else nothing less help me with
all this api stuff a lot
that's a really good thing to keep in
mind we're getting to the point now
where if you don't tell it to console
log it it's not going to console log it
right so that's something that we kind
of just glaze over and it's one of my
favorite like i love that like i love
when i get those errors because there
are so many there are those some of
those types of errors you're going to
run into where i'm like it didn't work
because i didn't tell it to do work
right
i didn't tell it to do the work so it
didn't do it right we we as humans we
jump
we do 50 000 things at one time computer
can't do it you got to tell it to do
this and then this and then this and it
slows this down gives us a better pace
of life right i love those errors cool
all right so we plugged in asset error
we got some data back
and if we look the thing we care about
is the sub classes
and right now
we see the subclasses is an array let's
just do data data.subclasses and see if
we can get that array by itself
um so data.sub
classes
let's save it and let's see what we get
now
i'm going to refresh acid arrow
boom get spell data
and boom we got this lovely array
and in the array we can see two objects
we can see
it has the name of lore
and the other one has
the name of land are these actually
subclasses are lore and land subclasses
i'm going lg magic missile that's my us
that that's like the best
when uh new folks do the lost mines
oh that's such a good good spell cool
they are okay that's interesting
[Laughter]
i'm not up on my subclasses
cool all right so there's lore and land
and
if we look
we can see that there's one of the zero
index and one at the first index and
it's just the name property
and so i think i can just grab the name
property
if i grab the object out of the index
like if we step back and think about
this what this is giving us like what
this data subclass is giving us is an
array
and in that array
are two objects
and i'm gonna want the object and once i
have the object i can use all the
properties that are inside of it like
dot name etc right
and so maybe i could hard code this
right now i could do subclasses
zero
which would be that first object
remember subclasses is an array
and in that array are two objects
right and so subclasses 0 would give me
this object
if i did it again
like if i console logged this twice
sub classes
one
would give me the second object
right it would give me the second object
so i can hard code this right now
by doing zero and one
and if we look each of the objects has
an index a name and a url so i'm just
going to use the name
how do we know which object to use by
playing with it or reading the
documentation
a lot of times you have no idea what
these apis are going to return to you so
you got to get in there you got to get
in the muck you got to play with it you
got to see all right what am i getting
back is it the thing that i want right
is it the thing that i want or do i have
to do something else to get the data
that i want and that's kind of the
tricky part with apis in the beginning
is that like
if the documentation is trash
then you're gonna have a really hard
time with that api
cool
um
so i think we just use dot name here and
that's what we're going to use i'm going
to use dot name
and that's why
being comfortable with your arrays and
your objects is really important because
that's that's the way we're going to use
data as we kind of continue on all right
so let's see if we get lower and land by
hard coding these
let's refresh
asset arrow again with the hyphen let's
not forget boom
all right now we're getting lore and
land
right
we could put these into the dom right
away
but if i just hard coded this if i just
like hard-coded these into the dom
what's the problem i'm gonna run into
different spells different answers
exactly we might wind up with a spell
that has more than two subclasses does
anyone know a spell that has more than
two subclasses
oh it's the high spell missile you spell
missile
i'll use fireball if this doesn't work
yeah
i'm not a spell
i'm a baddie and i spell bad
uh no
oh well this is different
lauren fiend
polymorph
now
burning hands
let's see
still just two oh you know what oh you
know what you know what we're not doing
this this is this is it
this is the problem you run into when
you hard code stuff because it's only
the two things are still hard-coded hold
on hold on hold on let's get back to our
code the two things are still hard-coded
i just did it in real they just did it
in real life
it was engagement i swear i was just
here for that i got i did because we
weren't actually console logging all the
data
so let's console data.subclasses
we weren't actually console logging it
uh so we were just we were just console
logging our hard-coded versions but we
weren't actually console logging all the
subclasses so let's let's go back and
try again
uh let's refresh
let's try burning
hands
all right they had two so now we can at
least see that there is two right
um
i think they might all have two
well polymorph had zero that was a good
one yeah that was good polymorph had
zero
let's see
so we got an empty array so if we were
hard coding that could be a problem
fireball has three let's try
fireball
boom that's two
um
so we're seeing at least at least some
have zero
right some have zero
some have
two
right
and there could be one
that has
beacon of hope i trust the rust let's
see
beacon
of
hope let's see
boom there we go and this one has three
thank you rossi this one has three so we
had just hard coded
if we had just hard coded zero and one
we'd be missing out right we'd be
missing out on the third value and we
saw that play on real time i got i hard
coded it and i was like why am i not
seeing the third why am i not seeing the
third because i wasn't console logging
all of them so now we know
that
now we know if we
why are these like tabs weird that's
bothering me
uh now that when we when we go to put
this into the dom we know that if we
were to hard code them we'd run into
some trouble right we could just plug
this stuff into the dom and be done
but what i really want to do
is i want to loop through the subclasses
and append them to the dom
and so in my
in my html
i have an empty ul
what i want to do
is i want to append
well let's let's go back here for a
second hold on what goes in ul so it's
been a while since we've touched some
html in css what goes in our go goes in
our yield all right
[Laughter]
lis go into our into our ul our list
items cool all right
we might need to do another super review
for some of y'all
mayonnaise get out of there all right so
i want to be able to loop through all
the subclasses we know sometimes we get
zero sometimes we get two sometimes we
get three so we'll be able to loop
through them
and so i'm gonna i'm gonna go down here
and i already know that
data.subclasses returns a what
append means to like put something in or
on
an array
so what method do we have
what method do we have that enables us
to loop through an array
yeah four each
why does it do that i don't like that
for each
i was going to type it out
all right we get this lovely for each
and this for each
will enable us to loop through the array
and so the very first thing i want to do
is i just want to grab the first element
all right it's going to grab that first
element and i just i just i just want to
append it to the dom right i just want
to take the element and i want to well
not something let's just put it in the
console first
let's just make sure this is working
cool so if this is working what we
should see
is each element
printed to the console i'm just gonna
i'm gonna comment these out for now
all right we should see each of them
each of the like objects append it to
the dom so let's go ahead and see if we
sorry put into the console let's see if
this does anything let's save it let's
go back
let's do let's let's i'm going to copy
beacon of hope let's refresh
and type in beacon of hope
and
all right great we we just logged what
what did we log here we logged all three
what
yeah we logged all three objects
and so
i use the el short for element remember
this is just a parameter this could be
anything we could have called this robot
and then console logged robot and it
would have worked just all the same it's
just it's just a parameter
uh since i know
that i am looping through an array of
objects what do you think a good
parameter name could be
yeah like object or i i don't like i
don't like using the like maybe maybe
object might be a protected word but
like we just do like obj right short for
object
obj short for object and then we don't
actually want to console log the objects
we wanted to grab the what off of each
of these objects
we could use subclass that could be a
good thing too
the name so i'm going to do object
dot name
cool let's save this
let's make sure this works and then i'll
walk through why it works
refresh
beacon of hope
boom we got our our three subclasses
that get printed to the console and so
this loop is just a generic for loop
what it is doing is it's running once
for each object in the array
each time it runs it's grabbing that
object
and pulling the name property off of it
so
data.subclasses when we did the beacon
of what was it beacon of hope when we
did the beacon of hope that subclasses
had an array that had three objects in
it
for each ran the first time grab that
first object and then pull the name
property off of it or each ran the
second time grabbing the second object
and grabbing the name off of it and then
for each run the last and third and
final time
grabbing that third object and grabbing
the name off of it
right so all this 4-h is doing is
enabling us to loop through that array
and grab each object that's in that
array we can see that that array
had three objects in it and all we're
doing is looping through grabbing each
of those objects
right
right grabbing each of those objects
and grabbing the name property out of
them we can even look we can see that
each of them has a name property that
we're grabbing name
name
name beautiful
now
instead of
instead of printing it to the console
i want to put it into the
dom
i'm gonna put it into the dom and so
what i'm gonna do here is on this for
each i'm gonna do my curly braces
and why do i need curly braces what is
curly braces gonna enable me to do
just multiple lines exactly multiple
lines gives me like a block that i can
put multiple lines in so i'm going to
keep the console log here because i
think that might be helpful for us to
see what's going on but now
i what i want to do
is i want to create an li
to go in my ul
i want to put the
the name the sub class name into that li
and then i want to append that li to the
dom so i'm going to do a little little
pseudo code here
create an li
um
add
text
to li
and then append
the li to the ul
cool
so these are some things you might have
to look up if you've never done before
that's why we're going to do them
together
so we're going to go ahead and create an
li so i'm going to do const ally
and i'm going to set it equal to
anybody know how we can create an li
anybody come across this yet
anybody with in mind will streams that
saw this
yeah it's create element i think this is
aptly name
document
dot create element
and we can tell it what type of element
we want to create and in this case it's
an li boom
we've created an li
and the cool thing is we've stored this
li that we've created
in the variable called li
i love it this is where it gets fun
folks right all i told is i said hey
create an element in this case i'm
creating an li
and i'm storing it in the variable li so
now wherever i use li that's the li i
just created so now i can add text to
this li
anybody know how to add text to the li
inner text is something that we've seen
but there's there's another way too
let me show you let me show you so li
dot
text
content
so the the
content of the li
what do we set the content of the li to
where we set the content of the li to
what does it need to be
what content should go in our li
oh [__] i figured out what it is i
remember what it was
name is now a tld
so when you do dot name
it thinks that it's a url and you are
going to get auto modded
so whenever it sees dot name it thinks
that it's a url that you're typing in so
you can't type in dot name without
getting auto modded but yes we would say
object
dot name
tld is like the like you know like dot
com
dot org
dot co dot io well now dot name is one
of those and so
um it'll think that you are
trying to put urls into chat yeah top
level domain exactly
cool
so we're gonna grab that object name
that we've been grabbing the ones that
we've been console logging we're gonna
put that content inside the li
and then the last thing i need to do
is append that li to the ul
and so all i'm gonna do is i'm gonna i'm
gonna
grab my ul document.queryselect
ul
and anybody know how to append my li to
that ul
yeah pen child somebody's like how do
folks know this well they know it
because they were hanging out with mayan
wolf part of the
100 dev stream team and they went
through something similar
all right penn child and we're just
going to append the li
now in this case
um
in this case
what is l i here what is is it what is l
i here
what is it yeah it's a variable
and it's the variable that's holding the
li that we created the li that we put
some text into and now we should see
that li be appended to the dom
right so
here is my hand
and i am appending
my switch pro controller to it
because i'm ready for honda civic
let me show that again in real time
here is my hand
and i am appending
my switch pro controller for it
i'm taking y'all are taking this this
week to to work
to catch up
i'm taking this week to grind
i'm gonna come out a lean mean smash
fighting machine
i'm ready for you
right here's my hand
i'm appending
the switch pro controller to it
beautiful
he's not even in chat good i don't need
i don't need him getting any more
channel points
i don't need them anymore
all right i suck at smash i'm gonna get
rolled but it's gonna be fun
all right
so
we now have the ability to loop through
all the subclasses we're creating an li
each loop we're putting the content in
the li and then we're appending that li
to the ul so if this works
what about mario kart oh you don't want
the smoke
you don't want the smoke
it i could play blindfolded and still
beat you you don't want the smoke cs go
you don't want the smoke
i think it has to i think it has to be a
switch game though because that's like
what what i can probably get set up for
stream
you know
all right let's see if this worked we're
having too much fun let's see if this
worked
all right
beacon of hope
boom
first try let's look at this
got the three subclasses showing up um
let's do asset arrow
two showed up um oh but we didn't do
something what should we we we we have a
new error that we're running into
um
that would be like clearing it
right we'd have to like clear all the
all the lis right
i'll save that for your homework
i'll let you figure out how to remove
stuff from the dom if you wanted to
clear it out on each one
we could do something really really
simple we could like refresh but i'm
going to save that for your homework
yeah
cool but it's working let's say beacon
of
hope
boom
we're getting the things put in there
let's refresh the page let's do asset
arrow
boom subclasses are going in there love
it let's take a look at the code let's
walk through how we did it
all right let's take a look
oh if you want to see how to do it you
can go and watch mine's vod where they
walk through how to do it there we go
that's how we get the engagement
mind walk through how to remove the
child there you go
all right let's take a look
we have our click event for when we
click on the button
right where we click on the button when
we click on the button it runs this get
fetch
the very first thing get fetch does is
we look at our input we grab the value
out of the input right we grab the value
out of the input sizer welcome uh grab
the value of the input
we store that value inside sorry store
that variable value inside the choice
variable
we plug that choice variable into our
template string here and then we use
this whole string to make a fetch we
send that request to the dnd 5e api and
it sends us back this massive json
object
right this massive json object and what
we do first is we console log that
massive amount of data we get back
and we saw that there was a sub class
property that's what we wanted that's
where the goods were so the first thing
we did was just console.log the
data.subclasses so we could see it and
when we saw data.subclasses we saw that
it was an array
and that array had multiple objects in
it so we said hey
we can't just hard code this because
what if there's zero what if there's two
what if there's three
different objects in that array so what
we decided to do
was loop through
[Music]
each object in that array so each time
for each runs it's grabbing one of those
objects
and once we have the object we can do
whatever we want with it we can pull the
name property off we can do whatever the
heck we want so we got the object and
what we decided to do was create an li
we put the name
of
the
subclass
in the li
and then we append it that li to our ul
we're having fun now folks look at this
this is wild this is wild
this is wild
a pen child is not a function you did a
lowercase c instead of a capital c
capital c
or a lot of times folks will type in
chat what if we did like this very small
tweak some of them i'm happy to do but a
lot of times i think you should just try
it right like if you if you wanted to
see would something work with inner text
try it would inner text work here right
try it take this code break it play with
it try out these little things that's
what you learn so much from having those
little those little
little epiphanies as you try and play
and break and open and do things in your
own way so the biggest thing i hope for
is that when you have this because i
always share the solutions after class
when you have the solution if there is
like why did leon do it this way and not
that way that you go and try it you
break it you you see what happens right
you got to do that that's how you're
going to make things learn how you're
not going to forget stuff it's part of
that like it's the active recall in the
moment but that exploration is what
makes a phenomenal engineer when they go
hmm they don't just walk away they
figure it out they go all right let me
figure out how i can do this that and
that you know so definitely i try to
cover some of them in class but i would
love if you all took that to heart and
said you know what i'm gonna try as soon
as we're done
i love it
for the first time they said break
it i've been getting a whole lot more
first tries i love to hear it
cool
uh
we
are making good time
uh some folks asked to run it back one
more time so let's run it back one more
time
and
and we will
we'll move on to our next application
all right so
we
went to the dnd api
right we went to the dnd api
they have so much stuff here look at all
this documentation
you could you could be reading all this
look at all these different endpoints
that they have like all these different
pieces of the api that you could use
but before going too deep into the sauce
we said all right here's the example
that they give so that's what i'm going
to use
we first tried this example in postman
just to see if we got some data coming
back i like to use postman in the
beginning just so i don't have to set up
my files i don't have to worry about
like is my is my javascript like i want
to worry about any of that weird stuff i
just thought it postman it was working
so i was like all right this is an api i
could probably use
when you're first starting out
especially if you were trying to do
the homework right
if you were trying to do the homework
the hard part of like finding three apis
was just finding three apis that worked
and that you were excited about
um
a lot of times like if there's stuff
that wasn't on that list that you didn't
like you could just google like the
thing you're interested in and api and
you'd be surprised how many apis that
are out there
cool
all right so i know that my time's not
gonna be wasted i know that this is
working
right i know this is working so what i
want to do is i want to go ahead and
plug this into my api template
everything that you saw here when we
first started was part of the template
we had the normal input that we have the
normal button that we have and i just
had to i just added two things like a
place to put the the the i added a ul
which is a place where i'm gonna put all
of my subclasses in
cool
so first thing we have here is our event
listener our smurf that is waiting for
the click right it's waiting for the
click
on
this
button
why don't we just get
the value out of the input on page load
right the first thing we do
is once it hears that click we get the
value
out of the input why do we wait for the
click
yeah if we just did it if we just if we
move choice
right if we like
moved this line here
like just out of the function it would
happen on page load and the user would
never be able to type in their their
thing they were looking for fast enough
the page would always refresh before
they could type in their stuff
and so we make sure it's inside the
fetch as soon as the user clicks the
button hopefully they've entered in
something before they click the button
we'll grab the value out of the input
and we're going to plug it into the url
now where the heck did i get the url and
where did the heck did i know to plug in
the choice over here
where did i get the url on how did i
know to plug choice there
yeah
i read the docs i read the documentation
for this api
you have to read the docs so many times
docs are going to tell you exactly what
you need to do how to do it and if you
read the docs well or get used to
reading documentation you can start to
suss out like how it's going to work how
it's going to do it's going to do so i
read the docs i got the url from the
docs i plugged in the choice
and the very first thing i did was just
like console.log i always console log
first don't go deep into building
console.log make sure stuff is working
make sure that you uh understand what's
like what you're getting back so i got
back that big data right i got all that
data back and i peered through and i saw
ah there was a subclass
property that i could use
and that subclass property
when i console logged it showed me that
there was an array
and that array
had some objects in it
so i knew that i was going to have to
loop through
that array
and grab each object
and once i grab that object
i was going to grab the name out of it
and put that in an li and then put those
lis into the dom
now there's only one place we put lies
and that's a ul
and so
that's what i did down here i know that
data subclasses was an array i used for
each to loop through that array
if there were two things in the array
this for each was going to run twice if
there were three things in this array
it's going to run three times
and if there was nothing in the array it
wouldn't run at all and so what i did is
i said all right this is the parameter
it's going to hold the object
i console.logged the name property on
that object which was all the subclass
names
and then i did three important steps
i created an li
and i stored it in a variable called li
i could have called it robot could have
called it unicorn but since it's an li i
called it an li
then i put the name
in the li
so now i just have like an li that has
some text inside of it
and then the last thing i did was take
that li
and append it to the ul
all that did was put if this was my ul
here comes my li
i appended the li to my ul
yup kimberly the li goes into the ul in
the html
cool
yeah html is not too wild here
just the ul that i added to the template
alrighty let's keep pushing folks this
was a good
like if you understand like come on
if you understand what the heck's going
on here like even if you can't do it
from scratch right you're gonna have to
re-watch this class you're gonna have to
put this stuff into your anki deck
you're gonna have to play with it for a
little while but if you understand like
think about all this like all the [__]
you have to know to understand
if you're even close to understanding
this right like if you understand that
oh i clicked the button in the dom and
when i clicked that button i got a value
out of an input i plugged that value
into my string using a template literal
you can use the bling syntax to do that
i then used that url to make a fetch
that fetch got me some data back from a
third-party server out there on the
internet that that server sent me a
bunch of data and i parsed through that
data using dot notation i saw that there
were some sub classes in there i uh i
then looped through those subclasses
because it was actually an array of
objects and i was able to loop through
that array of objects i pulled out each
object i got the name property of off of
each of those objects i created an li i
plugged the the name property into that
li and then i appended that li uh to the
ul that was existing in the dom so when
the user enters something they actually
see it
like what
what
come on now if you're even like
fifty percent here like if you're if
you're even just like i get fifty
percent of these words
you are in
the one percent of all one percent of
people on this world that has any idea
what's doing this because you know how
much work you got to put in to
understand just about 50 of this
you know much work you got to put in
some blood some sweat some tears some
long nights you got to put in to
understand this [__] this is why not
everyone is a developer
right it's hard [__]
work
but you're showing up you're putting in
that work and even if you understand 50
of this you're so far beyond
all the folks that come to me and say
leon i want to learn how to code what do
i do
do this
and then i never hear from them again
hundreds thousands of people that send
me that message here's what you got to
do they don't want to put in the work
you're doing it
so i don't care
if you're
deep in the trough of sorrow i don't
care if you understand 25 of this you
have to understand how far ahead
leagues
miles ahead of folks that want this but
don't put in the work to get there
you've been showing up time and time
again to put in the work and if you keep
doing it
if you keep showing up you keep putting
in the work you keep going through the
trough of sorrow you make it to the
other end
and so we got this break coming up
use the break to your advantage to do
whatever you need to do but whatever the
[__] you do don't
stop
it's a marathon not a sprint i don't
care if it takes an extra month if it
takes a little bit less it doesn't
matter
you keep showing up you keep putting in
the work you're going to get there and
you're already miles miles miles ahead
of all these other folks that say they
want it but they really don't
you owe you
cool
alrighty
so the really cool thing
about
the really cool thing about this api
is there's so much stuff here
there's so much stuff here i really like
this api because you could really build
uh a bunch of stuff
for a lot of different folks if you want
to help dungeon masters be able to look
up spells quicker you could build that
app if you want to be able to like show
all the sub classes for every
class in in the 5th edition you could do
that right and so i like this one
because there's a lot of meat here and
this is an api that could actually spit
out some pretty good portfolio projects
and if nobody told you a lot of software
engineers are big nerds and so you have
a dnd app on your portfolio that gives
you something to talk
through with that nerd during your
interview
and so yeah if you don't play dungeons
and dragons it's cool throwing this on
your portfolio because it's going to
open up some conversation to enable you
to talk to that to that person and um
yeah so i i like some of these i like to
call them nerd bait in your portfolio it
just makes it a little bit easier to
have conversations with folks and uh
you'd be surprised how much of a
difference the maker that can be when it
comes time to getting a job
talk about smelling good exactly ford
all right
do any of the nerds surf you'd be
surprised
yeah you'd be surprised especially like
in cali yeah
all right let's keep pushing folks
all right we we talked about last class
about local storage
i
love local storage local storage is
what's going to enable your apps to be
real
for users to be able to come back over
time to actually use your app like you
could put an app
just on netlife host it for free
but if you're using local storage folks
can actually use them they can come back
stuff can persist they can refresh the
page and not everything disappears and
so
if you're talking about
adding some stuff to the apps that
you've already built it's local storage
it's a game changer it makes your apps
real you invest in building something
you add it make it look good and you add
local storage you might actually have
users that come back over time to use
your app
all right
and so
we're not talking like huge amounts of
data yeah it has a limit we're not
talking huge amounts of data but look at
wordle wordle just stores the statistics
and wordle became an internet sensation
right people all around the world every
single day playing the same game
and it uses local storage if wordle can
use local storage you can use local
storage
and then sold for millions of dollars
exactly
every single person by the end of this
cohort will be able to build wordle very
quickly in fact if you're with mine well
they've already built it right and so
by the end you can definitely build
wordle and if they if you if like you
have the power to build an app that can
be sold for millions of dollars that's
pretty wild
all right let's talk about local storage
real quick and then we'll take our break
and when we come back from our break
we're going to build a cool app that
uses local storage we're going to see
some some bits or bobs that we could
start adding to our projects everything
that i've been showing over the last few
classes
is just so you can start to build real
stuff
right if you can use apis you can build
real stuff with real data if you can use
local storage you can build real stuff
that persists and so i really hope that
you take all this stuff
right and use it to build bigger apps
you don't have to wait for me to give
you an assignment if there's something
cool that you want to build
try it if you get stuck come to one of
our working together nights on tuesday
and thursday next week go to discord say
like i'm stuck on this but like start
building start thinking of little things
that you can build because that's where
so much of your learning is going to
come from all right local storage
uh local storage allows you to store
data across browser
sessions
right and so the idea is that your user
can close their browser they can close
their tab come back and still have
access to a small amount of data
there's a way that we can put stuff into
local storage by saying set item uh so
we say local storage set item we give it
a name and we give it a sorry a key and
a value and we put that key value into
right
right that key value into local storage
we can also get values out of local
storage so we can say hey get that item
of best friend and it would give you the
item you don't need the bob here that's
a mistake and then you could also remove
an item from local storage so you have
the ability to put stuff in get stuff
out remove stuff and you can even clear
all the local storage if you would like
so
what i want to build
is a book tracker app i want our users
to be able to enter in a book that they
have read
and then it stores it in local
storage
so we're going to use a an api that
looks up the isbns of books it gives us
the title of that book and then we're
going to start storing those titles into
local storage so that our users can keep
coming back and have like their own
version of say like
of like goodreads or something like that
cool all right
we're close to the top of the hour so
let's go ahead and take our break if
you're new around here we take we put
five minutes on the timer at the top of
every hour to be healthy to move around
if you're able to to let your eyes focus
on something that's not the screen to
kiss some babies walk some dogs i'm
gonna put five minutes on the timer i'll
see you all soon so five minutes i'm
gonna run some ads you actually take a
break
and i'll see you all in five
[Music]
you
all right folks come on back come on
back
we got a lot of dnd players huh yeah
this is a vive
i'm feeling this
and it gave me the perfect fade a turn
up all right folks let's go through this
together
let's talk about this app let's see
we're going to build
a book tracker
michael the learner hey to you as well
alrighty
so
i want to build a book tracker
where the user can
enter in an isbn like the numbers for
each book like the unique number for
each book i want to be able to then grab
the title
and then store that title
in local storage so that whenever the
user comes back they can see all of the
like they can see all of the books that
they have read over time
so that's the goal
and to do this we're going to have to
learn a new api look at a new api we're
going to have to learn a little bit
about kind of local storage and how that
works
and we're going to kind of take it from
there
just to get started i'm going to use
this api
you can click the api here in the link
on the slides once again you can click
the link on the slides
once again
you can click the link
on the slides
and i'll also put it
in chat
so here's the api
there we go that's the api we're using
today
and uh this api
is a little funky in my mind it works i
like it i've used it
but there's a lot of different stuff
here
and i think it's a good
it's a good example of how most apis
kind of shake out
right
if we look there's like you jump in it's
like the the open library has three
types of book apis the works api the
additions api the isbn api and the books
api generic great
all right so worx is a logical
collection of similar editions
oh boy and so this is where it just kind
of goes off the rails right like like
you could
scan vr a thank you for the five gift
itselves i appreciate you thank you for
being here
make sure you get yourselves that's a
wild
if you get the subs everyone uh a lot of
folks using the prime today thank you
for the prime subs appreciate it
thank you for regular subs
all right
uh if we look at this api we have
a lot of
like you got to kind of read it right
you got to like scroll through and see
what works what doesn't work and so
a lot of times i'll be honest when i
find a new api
i kind of just like look until they give
me an example
and then i just kind of grab that
example and try it out right
and so i'm just i i see here that
there's like a like a
there's a bunch of different like urls
and stuff like that and
um
you can you can kind of scroll for days
to find it and there's all this
different stuff in here
um
but i'm just going to grab some stuff
and and see if it works
and so i'm just going to grab this first
one
and um
i don't know
let's see what's here
let's grab this let's see if it works
boom
i'm going to go ahead and create a new
kind of
tab here
i'm going to plug it in
and uh see what i get
all right so it actually works the link
works
um and we're getting some certain
information back
some folks are saying what does curl
mean
so curl is a command line utility
remember how we talked about the
terminal and how there are some programs
that could run in the terminal well
curls like that it's like a fetch but it
works inside of the terminal like
through the command line yeah it's like
a way of making requests exactly
all right so that that worked i just
grabbed the url to see if like it would
work inside a postman and it works i'm
getting some stuff back i'm getting like
the isbn back i'm getting
some i don't know what this lccn thing
is so
actually i'm kind of curious if i just
remove this lccn do i get anything
different
oh yeah i just get it without the um
without that that other data so
a lot of times
i will take
the
url
and i'll just play with a little bit to
see what kind of data i get back
um to see if it's working but right now
i don't see the
the title i want the title like i want
to be able to
to pass in a in an isbn
and um
and uh get the title back robodominate
thank you for the bits so let's go ahead
and go back to this documentation and
i'm i've done this already like i
already know
what i'm looking for but i want to show
you like a realistic take of what i
would do when i come to a new api uh i
don't i don't really spend all the time
reading honestly i just start taking
urls and like start like looking through
it and so
i i look for where they give examples
and if they give me an example
i can see like there's like a title in
here
so maybe whatever url they're using here
would give me the title as well
i'm just going to grab this one
and i'm going to go back
and i'm going to plug it in
and i'm just going to see what i get
back
all right
i am getting
some stuff back
i am getting number of pages
i'm getting
covers
i do have the title here i am getting
the title from this one
uh so there is there is a title in here
somewhere
um and it looks like we have a lot of
stuff on here i don't know what this js
mcd stuff i'm gonna try removing that
i'm definitely gonna keep the format
json query parameter because i i want
the um i definitely want it to be in
json
if i get rid of that format thing i
don't get all the details so the thing i
just deleted seems to be kind of
important so i'm going to keep that
there because when i have that there i
get all the details that i need
cool
what happens if i remove the format.json
let's see i don't know this is part of
that play i talk about right like i just
play with it i see what i get what what
it what it what it does and what it
doesn't do
and
oh interesting
can you see what it did here i know it's
a little small to see
but you can see that it sent
like an object it's like it's like it's
like a variable is now there it's not
it's no longer like a like a nice clean
object
it's like it's like a variable that it
gave me
huh that's interesting
let's add it back and when we add it
back we can see we just get like the raw
object which is way easier to work with
probably
uh so yeah so there's a lot of little
things here i think this could work i
think we would be able to plug in
um our isbn and get some some stuff
happening there are a lot of other like
endpoints on here like the urls that are
on here i think some of them are easier
i actually think i wind up using a
different one and so i'm going to leave
it up to you to pick the endpoint that
you use
but what i want to do is i want you to
make a copy
of our api template so we have the api
template uh that's like i believe it's
the set up as the pokemon api yes it is
the pokemon api
i want you to make a copy of your api
template
and i want you to get back
a book
title
i want you to be able to enter in an
isbn so for folks that don't know an
isbn on the back of books there's often
these numbers
the isbn numbers
either use the isbn they give you in the
docs like just like the um
the generic one that they have like
right here
or grab a book that's near you
and
and plug it in so what i want you to do
i'm going to put some time on the on the
clock here
use your starter templates use the api
template
get
the title of the book coming back like i
want you to console log the title of the
book they should be able to enter in the
isbn and get the title of the book back
so i'm gonna put some time on the clock
for you to do that and then we're gonna
go through it together and then once
we've got that working we're gonna dig
deeper and start storing this stuff in
local storage
all right
this is one of your three api apps
that's pretty dope all right let's go
ahead i'm going to kind of just leave
open
i'm just going to open up my api
template here i'm just going to use this
one the javascript i'm going to close my
dnd
and i'm just gonna bring oh it's the
nasa one now right this is nasa uh so
it's not the longer the pokemon one is
nasa this is even better it's still the
same stuff uh go ahead and get the title
coming back from this api it's up to you
what route you use read it play with it
figure out which one you're going to use
and then get it working let's put five
minutes on the clock here
five minutes and we're gonna go over it
together
go for it
how do i duplicate the folder depends on
your operating system you could just do
a mine on mac os that's just right click
duplicate
you could just copy and paste it you
know
book 503 axios better we're not there
yet though
yeah we'll get there we're going to go
to async await and then we'll get to
axios
when i say endpoint ping pong i just
meant url like the url you get to choose
what url if we look at the um
api there's so many of these different
urls you could use some of them are
going to give you the title data some of
them are not so i'm going to let you
pick it you got and part of this is like
reading the documentation and figuring
out what url you want
you want to get back a title for when
they enter in an isbn
like the number of the book
my
oh no sorry to hear that multi
always rams always rams
better nellie we're just trying to enter
in an isbn number and get
a title back we're gonna go through it
all together too
miner thank you for sharing
um
well this is always i always i'm playing
stream beats by harris teller this one
is unwind and recharge
is there a way to have multiple
resolution on a single video what do you
what do you mean catchy
resolution in a single video i mean like
a lot of the big players like youtube
you can change your resolution based on
um
it really comes down to having the
highest resolution possible and then the
player being able to choose
goodwill hey congrats
got a lot of dunzo's coming in that's
good to see
don't worry we're going to go over it in
about a minute 30 seconds
me too now get me too
seven minutes yeah if you can store it
in a variable that can save you a lot of
look up time
not really super speedy but
more so that your code will be drier
[Music]
trying to get the trying to get the
title
[Music]
oh thank you for the gift of sub i
appreciate that
we just want to see the title yeah we
just want to see if we can get the title
put it in the console that's about it
do you have a suggestion for basic paid
domain hosting i mean like just buying
your domain buying your domain i
recommend namecheap where i want my
domain
um but i mean like hosting just i just
use netlify for free
all right folks come back let's take a
look at this together come on back come
on back
i'm feeling maybe maybe i'm i'm feeling
maybe our first real end early
i'm feeling it but i think we i think we
might we might do it
you know why
when i first planned this lesson
i planned it um because we had just made
partner we just made partner on uh on
twitch when i last planned this session
so we've got a little bit of room to
play with here it might be our first
real end early heading into our break
ended into a holiday weekend
we'll see
[Laughter]
one hour later
spring break
all right uh so we have all the nasa
stuff in here
what i want to do is i want to find one
of these the urls that like actually
works
uh what urls did you all wind up using
that was easy to get the title i see all
some folks like saying to use certain
links or something like that which one
did you use
don't you don't maybe just don't put
like the um
the full link because it'll get blocked
out
the isbn one
all right so it looks like there was
the works the editions the isbn and the
books it looks like folks are saying the
isbn ones let's take a look this is
works this is editions this is
isbn and
all right here's here's one of the links
oh and i guess this is just where the
isbn goes it's just like the end of it
so let's try this and see if it works
i'm gonna plug it in
and uh
i just had the raw link right that was
what it was yeah raw link let's see
all right we got something back but look
it sent us back what did it look it sent
us back like html
right it sent us back like html data
is this like formatted already oh yeah
it's all in here but it's html
interesting
um we before we used to do the um
i swear when i pasted it and did it we
had the and
was it
uh format is like and format
equals
json let's see if this does anything
nope still the html
let's go ahead and take a look at the
docs and see if they give us anything to
get the json data
uh
all right here we go
you may add dot json to the end of your
url to request response in json instead
of html so this is one of those weird
apis where you can get html if you want
it if you want the json we got to add
that dot json to the end jason
all right let's go ahead and just uh the
add format doesn't work for this end
point dot
json
look at this go
let's go there's so much stuff in here
and so this is this is another reason
why i really like postman right like i'm
able to play
i'm able to um mess around and uh it it
i i don't have to worry about like like
being in my actual javascript file like
i can see everything that's in here all
right let's see if we get what we want
boom title
fantastic mr fox beautiful
i also have a book here that i want to
test real quick to see if it works i
want to we want this to work for a bunch
of books right so
i have my
my spanish workbook here so i'm going to
uh plug in the isbn of my spanish
workbook
seven eight
one two six
zero
four six
three one three
two
all right let's see if this
works oh yeah
there we go you can see my spanish book
showing up
uh it has the title there if i need it
um cool so it's working so it's working
not only with the
the
with the like the value they gave me is
like the the default like the test value
but it's working with an actual book i
have near me so boom are you anchoring
that book hell yeah i'm making that book
anki was made to learn languages like
that was like the original use for it
so if you're trying to learn a language
hell yeah mikey decks are gonna be plump
all right
so now we know this works we know it
works not only with the test isbn like
the number of the book but also with a
book that i have next to me so i feel
pretty comfortable using this i know i'm
getting json back let's get this working
let's uh let's just get this working
and make sure that we can use it so here
we have our template which is set up for
nasa right now
i'm just going to open this in the
browser
and um i'm going to open up the
inspector
before i start making changes
one thing i always like to do
is just see if it works
right like sometimes your templates
don't oh that's so cool oh my gosh
i just got data back from nasa that
blows my mind like if i could go back
and tell like six-year-old leon like one
day leon you're gonna know how to write
code that gets
beautiful photos back from nasa my mind
would be blown look at that that's
beautiful
um so
i always just like to test my my
template code to make sure it actually
like works right make sure it actually
works so now i know it's working uh the
thing that we're probably going to
change though is that this is now a date
input so i want to change this back to a
text input and uh i'm probably just
going to leave everything as it is
and the only other thing i have to
change is the um endpoint right like the
url
so let's go ahead and plug in the url
that we just tested
in postman right we just tested this in
postman we know that this url works so
i'm not even gonna i'm not even i'm not
even gonna try and use a like use my
variable like the choice variable or
like my template literal at all i'm just
to save it and see if it actually like
does anything
so refresh
click the button
boom
um
i still have the media not support it
contact nasa immediately
i love it
[Laughter]
please don't contact nasa
all right so it worked and we got um
the book back that i had entered
that looks good to me
uh
what we can do now i'm just going to get
rid of all this stuff is that's in here
um that way don't worry about like the
nasa alerts or anything like that i
still have my data
let's once again let's just run this to
make sure that it works even though i
chop some stuff out still working now i
want to get to this part here i want
this to be what the user enters so i
know i'm already inside of a template
literal how do i know that i'm inside of
a template literal
how do i know i'm inside of a template
literal
the ticks exactly
boom boom
choice
you don't thought we could get this done
in five minutes i do i do think some of
you could get this done in five minutes
but it's never completed whenever we do
assignments during class it's never
completed it's get as far as you can
that's the point as far as you can
all right
we got our choice plugged in
we should be able now to grab our choice
i'm just going to go to post one real
quick and grab that number
yoink
all right
uh let's go to our site
and refresh
let me post in
my number
i don't need the json though
and
boom all right we're still getting the
spanish book uh and i'm able to type in
my own number and get it let's grab
their default number and make sure that
that works the fantastic mr fox
boom working
fantastic mr [__] let me just refresh a
little easier to see for everyone so i'm
gonna paste in the the default that they
gave me
all right i got it
in there is
the title
and it's fantastic mr fox so it's
working
so we have the ability to
have the user click a button when they
click the button it gets the value out
of the input we're plugging that value
into our open library
api url we're using the fetch to make to
get that that url
cool
all right
so what i want to do
is i want to be able to
start
i want to be able to keep a book tracker
so i want to be able to each time the
user enters in a book
to
store that data
in local storage
but what i want to do first is make sure
let me just make sure i can get the
title let me make sure you get the title
first like that's that's what we want to
work up to let's get the title
let's refresh
let me grab this this number again
and close these
all right let me type in the fantastic
mr fox
great i'm getting the title
let's put this title in the dom
all right let's see what we got in our
html
um
let's move the h3 up here
oh we already had name
we can just put it in name i guess
let's put it in name so we'll put it in
the h2
so let's go ahead and target the
document
we could do document.queryselector
we could target the h2
and we could put inner text
equals and we could do data dot title
all right let's make sure that we are
taking the stuff
and putting it into the dom correctly
let's i'm just going to grab the number
before we refresh
all right let's refresh
let's plug in the number
all right cool
we got fantastic mr fox showing up in
the dom
we still have it in our console log it's
looking
good
looking good
um
so right now
i am grabbing the title
and i am putting it into
the html
the problem however what would be the
problem if i wanted to keep putting in
multiple multiple
multiple
books
what if i wanted to put in multiple
books what would be the problem i would
run into
right now it just kind of overwrites
itself exactly
so let's
let's not have it overwrite let's just
kind of concatenate
let's concatenate here
so how can i make this concatenate
plus equals yeah
plus equals so now it'll just
concatenate each time so let's save this
let's go back and refresh
uh here's fantastic mr fox
i'm gonna click it the first time boom
if i was to then also do it again
you can see that we can keep kind of
concatenating fantastic mr fox
i could even um
grab the number from my book that i have
next to me
and plug that in
and
there we go now it's concatenating that
book as well
right
cool
so now we're able to put all of these
books into the dom
we can now have like a nice list of
books that we're putting into the dom
maybe we even make li's and put li's
into the dom right some of those we
could do that now but we have like the
list of books
now the problem with this list of books
is what
what's the problem with this list of
books
it looks ugly
uh no the problem is
and it all goes away
right it all goes away yeah we could
work on formatting right we could you
know like we could like
um
we could put a little a little a little
like space after it or something like
that we could put like like commas or
something like that we could do a bunch
of stuff right but the big problem right
now
is as soon as i put all this effort to
enter in all my books
and then i hit refresh and it just goes
away no way
so what what could we use what could we
use to help solve
this
problem
yeah local storage all right let's try
local storage uh let's look at our local
sources see if there's anything in it
right now maybe i forgot to clear some
old stuff let's see
application
local storage
so we can see bot scores in there
uh bot score from the other day is in
there that's pretty neat so there's
still something in local storage uh if i
wanted to clear it what could i do what
could i do to clear local
local storage
dot
clear
boom
all right i cleared it if i go back to
application we can see there's no key
value pairs in local storage now cool
uh so if i wanted to put
my book title
into local storage
what could i do let's say i want to i
want to put
put
title
into
local
storage
what could i do
yeah set items let's try that let's do
local storage dot set item
we're gonna call it books
and we're gonna put into it
data dot
title data.title
cool
now we set the item to be data.title
let's go back
let's refresh
i'm going to grab their
their their number here
and let's put it in let's click the
button
and cool
so now not only do we have
the text in the dom
but we have the text in local storage
so if i refresh
if i refresh
right we can see it's gone from the dom
but it's not gone from local storage
that's pretty cool
so
what should i do
[Music]
instead of putting data.title
into the dom
what should i put into the dom
yeah we could do get item yeah so
instead of instead of just using the
title raw we could do like the get item
so let's go and do local
storage dot get item
and we're going to get the books item
so i just want to make sure you can see
it all in one line for a second
right we're gonna put just like we had
inner text before to put it in the h2
instead of it just being data.title
we're just gonna get the item books and
use that to put it into the dom
cool
so let's go ahead and
save this
let's go ahead and refresh and if it
works we'll go through and see why it
works
all right so let's go ahead and type in
let's just grab the fantastic mr fox
number
let's plug it in
let's get pokemon
great
fantastic mr fox is in
local storage we can see it in the dom
and if i refresh
we get any errors
you get any errors what happened
what happened
look i refreshed i thought the whole
point of putting into local storage
but the whole point was that it that it
would be there
i thought i
thought it would be there would be there
for me
all right let's take a look
when do we actually put it into the dom
does it happen on page load
is it up here
on page no
it only happens when we click the button
right it's only get the way we have it
right now it only gets put when we click
the button so let's go back and take a
look i'm not even going to put a number
in here let's just click the button
all right we updated we updated it to be
undefined let's go ahead and plug in
the number
boom fantastic mr fox is getting plugged
in there
cool
let's refresh let's try it again
great
so now we got it where
it puts it in once we click the button
um
maybe we do it on page load as well
let's just do it on page load
and maybe we don't do plus equals
anymore
maybe we just reset it we reset it to
whatever is in local storage so whatever
the heck is in local storage that's what
we're going to set it to be equal to and
i'm going to do it on freaking page load
as well
i'm just going to copy this yoink
put it up here
save it
and let's run the page again
all right
i see you mr fox
so now on page load no matter how many
times they refresh see me refreshing
they see me refresh and
they hate in
right
it stays there no matter what
cool we don't get guy uh i can also
right now the way it's set up i can like
just completely override
um books
and so if i just completely override
what's in books
um now it's complete spanish step by
step premium second edition
and no matter how many times i refresh
it it keeps showing up right like the
user can come back
and come back they could close it they
could come back right and it just stays
there because it's not pulling from
anything other than
local storage
cool
now that's not what we came here for
folks
it's a book
tracker
right it's a book track i want to track
all my books not one book i want to
track all the books
so let's go ahead and take a look let's
make sure we understand what's happening
right now
and then we're going to take it a step
further
all right so
uh we have on page load
we are grabbing whatever is in local
storage under the key of books
right whatever is in books
we're going to go ahead and plug it into
the dom
that's why when we refresh
right that's why when we refresh
the
book shows up in the dom right away
now how the heck did we get something
into right how did we get into
the local storage so
when we click our button we run the get
fetch method
we grab the number that the user is
plugged in from the input
we plug that into our open library url
as a template string and so this will be
the url that we will use to make our
fetch
we go ahead and we make our fetch to the
open library server we get back our data
and the very first thing we did was
console log that data
all right so we console logged the data
and then we realized that once we
console logged the data
we had the title property
and so what i did is i took that title
and i set a key of books
on local storage that had that title so
that's how we got books
fantastic mr fox
and now that there was a book in local
storage
what i decided to do
was make sure
that i
used that local storage to update the
dom so whatever was in the books uh key
i plugged that into the dom here so i am
setting the value into local storage and
i am updating the dom using local
storage i'm no longer just taking the
raw data back from the api i'm using
local storage as my source of truth
all right
so now the problem is i don't want to
just keep replacing books
i want to have a list of books
a list of books
so
what could i do
arrays get messy inside of local storage
let's just let's just use strings for
now let's just use strings
what could i do i could just concatenate
yeah i could just concatenate
and update my storage with that
concatenation
all right so what i want to do
is
instead of
constantly resetting it like this let me
comment this out real quick let me
create a variable
let books equal
and what i'm going to do is i'm going to
get anything that's already in local
storage
so i'm going to get anything that's
already in local storage
under the key of books
so this would give me every single book
that's already in storage
what would i want to add
to those books
what i want to what would i want to add
here
what i want to add here
yeah the title of the book i just got
back
so i can do a little concatenation here
let's do plus
i'm going to i'm just going to put like
something in between just as like a
delimiter
and then i'm going to add data dot title
so what this is going to do
is when they click the button
i'm going to get everything that's
already in books
that's going to give me the string
right that's going to give me the string
and then
i am going to
concatenate the new title
and so once i have that new title what i
will do
is i will update my local storage like
i'll set my local storage
but this time it'll just be
books
so what the heck am i doing here
what am i doing here let's take a peek
so
if i grab all the books that are
currently in local storage let's look
the only book that's in local storage
right now
right
is complete spanish
so what i would be doing in this
instance
is grabbing the complete spanish
and then if i had looked up fantastic
fox
i will be concatenating
the colon
and then the fantastic mr fox
so now i have not only the all the books
that were already in local storage i
also have the new title as well
what up true
and so we're going to be able to
concatenate them together and then i
take this whole new string
i take this whole new string
and i put that into
local storage
and then down here all i do is i take
that new value and i put it in the dom
let's see if this works
and there are a lot of things that are
going to help us down the line stringify
parse like if you know some more of
these like more advanced json tools like
there are better things we could be
doing here but i think this is kind of
like stuff that we should at least be
um
yeah at least be getting close to some
stuff we've seen before without pushing
too far all right let's go back and take
a look
all right let's refresh
we got the complete spanish step by step
already in the dom so we're looking good
we see in our application it's already
complete spanish is already in there
let's grab the fantastic mr fox
boom
let's grab that isbn let's plug it in
three two
a one
let's go first try
and let's uh let's try refreshing it
we refresh it's still there nice
all right it's looking good looking good
for straight
first try
thank you [__]
let's understand how this works
and then we're gonna solve
one very important problem
we're gonna there's a there's a problem
with this right now and it's not just me
i'm a problem but there's also a problem
with the code if we do something weird
so let's go ahead and take a look at it
let's see if we can make sure that we
understand what it how it works
all right
let's see
uh html file is just our normal html
file that we have for the api template
we got the button we're clicking on the
input where we're putting the isbn
numbers in and then we're just putting
everything into this h2 here
yeah
cool
so if we look
uh
we do something on page load we actually
take whatever is in local storage
and we put it into the h2 so before
anything happens on page load we're
saying hey whatever is stored in local
storage
underneath the key of books
put it in this h2
right put it in this h2
all right
now we also have our event listener and
so when we click this when we click that
button it runs the get fetch function
which is the normal function we've been
using
we grab the value out of the input which
is the new isbn number
we then plug that isbn number into our
url using the template literal right
and then
we get our response back from the api
we can see that there is a title on the
response that we got back and so the
tricky part here is we want to be able
to update local storage but we don't
want to just completely wipe through
everything that was already there
what we do is we take whatever was
already in local storage
and we add the new title to it
so we actually get whatever was in local
storage and then we just add the new
title to it and we store that in the
books variable right so whatever is
already in storage we grab and we add
title to it so
if i already had in storage
uh magic school bus solar system
right
what i'm gonna do here is i am going to
grab
magic
school bus solar system
and then i'm going to add
magic school bus
animals
and then that's what gets put into local
storage
so the next time i ask for local storage
i get back both
right
and then the next time i entered in a
new book let's say i entered in magic
school bus human body
right i would get out of local storage
the
human body sorry i would get in local
storage the solar system and animals
that is already in there and then i
would add
the human body
and then all three of these would get
put
right would get put into local storage
and so i'm using the idea that i can get
what's already in there add something
new and then put that all back in that's
what i'm doing here right so i'm
grabbing whatever books were already in
there
adding and concatenating the new title
and then setting local storage to be the
stuff that was previously in there plus
the new one
cool and then the last thing i do is get
that value out of storage
and put it into the dom
however we have a problem
we have a problem if you're showing
duplicates we got rid of that plus
equals that was here that was probably
it
right we got a problem though and it's
not just me today
what's what's the problem that we could
run into
if we clear local storage
we're going to run into some issues so
let's go ahead and take a look
let's in the console just clear it
local storage
got clear
all right we cleared local storage and
now if we were to refresh
there's nothing in local storage right
so we don't get anything that shows up
that's at least good
um and we put in our isbn
we have null in there at first
right we have like this null
right we have this null that's in there
let's go ahead and try adding the other
number as well
it's still working we can refresh but
that null is in there
why the heck do we get that no what do
we think is happening there why why is
that no
all right why is that no
look
on the very first time
yeah on the initial call exactly on the
very first time that this runs
is there anything in local storage with
the key of books the very first time we
cleared storage and the very first time
this runs would there be anything in
local storage
nah
there wouldn't be
so we actually already saw how to handle
this last class
what can we use to handle this so that
we don't have the null that bothers us
yeah we could have a conditional so
let's do the conditional that we did
last class
so we're going to do if
right and we're just going to check hey
does local storage
dot get item
books
right
if it's not no
right if it's not no
right
if it's not no
we're in a good spot
right we're in a good spot so if it's
not null
if it's not no what do we mean what does
that mean if it's not no what do we know
it has something right it has something
so can we just if it has something could
we do this
cool
so there's two things we have to do
we're gonna have this and we're gonna
have an else
all right
so one of them
one of them
we are going to
do what we already have here
the other one we are going to
just set the the the local storage right
we're just going to set the local
storage let's let's just play here let's
let's comment this out let's just play
real quick
let's go in here and let's just do this
let's do
uh local storage
set item
we're gonna set it to be books
and we're gonna set it to data dot title
cool
let's just save this let's see what
happens see what happens stay with me
all right
local storage set item
all right let's save it
oops sorry books there we go books
cool let's save it let's see what
happens
let's let's uh we got to clear local
storage first
all right so i cleared my local storage
and i refresh you say there's nothing in
local storage
let's grab fantastic mr fox
let's plug in the title
let's get our pokemon
and we saw a fantastic mr fox
but
let's check our application
we can see that it's in the dom
right so it worked
there was nothing in there so we set it
right we said it to be meant fantastic
mr fox right
but
we didn't put it into the dom so we need
to go ahead and uncomment that part that
puts it into the dom either way no
matter if it's the if or the else we
want to put it in the dom
right we want to put it in the dom so
we're going to we're going to uncomment
this part
we know that there's we know that
they're now
we know that this first part works so
let's go ahead and grab our other part
that we already had down here and plug
it in let's copy it
let's just play and see if it works
right let's just play
and i'm going to uncomment it
all right let's let's see what we're
getting now let's save this
let's save this let's go back
let's refresh we got a fantastic mr fox
in there already
let's grab my spanish book
let's enter it
now we got we got the complete spanish
in there we got the fantastic mr fox in
there if we refresh everything's still
there in the dom i'm refreshing i'm
refreshing
let's clear local storage
let's see if our original problem is
still there local storage dot clear
boom we cleared it if we refresh
nothing's in there let's put my spanish
book in
all right it's working now even
even if we clear it
we don't have
the uh the uh
even if we clear it we don't have
the problem of that null anymore
right
cool we got rid of null let's go and
take a look and see what happens
when we get local storage get item books
right
if there's nothing in there what would
we get
if there was nothing in the books
key of local storage what would we get
we would get null
right
we get no
right we would get no
and so what we want to say is hey
i'm gonna say hey
let's get rid of the bang let's get rid
of the bang and see what happens here
let's get rid of the bang
let's see what happens let's go ahead
and clear it
let's try it again
i want to see it play with a little bit
let's refresh put it in
boom
you get the null again
all right so we know we need that bang
there so let's think through it
what are we saying here
we're saying if it's false
right we're checking to see if it's
falsy
right
if it's false right if it's false
we need to go ahead and put something
into local storage
right
right we need to go ahead and put
something into local storage
if we're if the if we have something
that's null in there we want to go ahead
and put it into local storage
right no by by itself is a falsie value
right it's a falsie value right and so
we say not falsie basically as we're
saying we're saying not falsely we're
making this true because our conditional
only runs
when it's true
right so
if there's null we're going to go ahead
and set it to be the first book
right the first book
and then for every other iteration this
will now be false the after the very
first time we put something into local
storage we don't need this if anymore
and the else will run every single time
so this if is just handling the very
first time when we have nothing inside
of local storage every other time we can
just concatenate and add to local
storage
cool
alrighty
so if we save all this up we now have a
beautiful
book tracker where you can plug in all
the isbns of your favorite books
and it will keep track of them
you can refresh and come back
and it will work
as long as you don't clear out your
local storage and so i know this is a
simple idea and yes i know that we're
doing isbns which don't make any sense
but the idea here is that with these
very simple tools you can start building
apps to have persistence you can start
plugging stuff into the dom you can
start doing all these things that are
real
apps
and so come back and play specifically
with these two apps that we've built
tonight play with them right fox hey
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
because there are so many edge cases
that we didn't think through right there
are so many edge cases what if i
like don't put anything in now i have
undefined
fix it make it work with undefined right
uh there there are what if the book
has uh has a semi like has a semicolon
in it right there are so many like these
weird edge cases that can come in with
these problems and so if you're looking
for like leon what do i you keep saying
to come and break and play what do you
want me to do well first try try solving
some edge cases
try try changing it instead of getting
the title can you get something else
right try playing with it if you if
you're having some trouble kind of
you understand when i'm doing it but
then when you go to do it yourself
that's always the case you need to play
with the code more
you're going to have my full solutions
on discord after class
delete everything type it again
get it working delete everything type it
again
brook leak hey thank you for the five
good decels i appreciate that thank you
for being here thank you for uh being so
active in chat tonight too it was
appreciated
cool
so let's go back and talk about the next
week before we end with a lovely
raid
so
we do not have office hours on sunday
due to the holiday
and then tuesday and thursday we have a
work together nights so if you want to
come and work on some stuff together
work on apis if you're part of the
ketchup crew and you just want to work
with some other members of the catch-up
crew to get caught up
i'll be there hanging out i'll be
answering questions i'll be jumping
around tables just to say hello to folks
and see how i can be of help but if you
need those tuesdays and thursdays to get
work done come to our work together
nights so you can get help done but we
won't have actual
class
right we won't have actual class it'll
just be time to catch up and use it
however you need for some folks they're
going to take that full week just to
recharge but if you're ready to grind a
little bit and you haven't finished the
codecademy.js course i highly recommend
it and the reason why i recommend it
because it's going to give you all the
practice over all the little things that
we've done over the past few weeks
together and then make sure you get a
start on your professional checklist
these are all the things you're going to
need squared away before we get into the
job hunt there's a lot here with really
good examples so you can get started uh
this uh next week or so
so
let's go ahead and set up the raid
it's been wonderful having another class
with you all i hope you had some fun
building this is where it starts to get
fun we're gonna get into oop and then we
get in the back end and our apps get
even more powerful
so uh let's go ahead let's see who's
live
all right
here look on to uh
vape juice yet are they still live let's
see
all right let's go over vape juice
jordan uh we're gonna go ahead as always
please
send them some love give them some
follows
i'll see you over there folks have a
wonderful wonderful week have a great
weekend
i'll see you all next week if you come
by to the work together sessions love to
have you there
please build break put together have fun
with the code and enjoy your time see
you all over there let's raid
peace youtube